# Kiva Repayment Analysis
## by Christopher James


## Dataset
Please note that the CSV files are too big to be uploaded to GitHub. In order to run this analysis, download the original file and run it through 'kiva_repayment_wrangle.ipynb'. Then, use the created master file in
the 'kiva_repayment_analysis.ipynb' notebook. This dataset contains statistics about borrowers from the microfinance charity Kiva. Wrangling was done on the notebook 'kiva_repayment_wrangle.ipynb'. More information 
can be found in the file 'kiva_repayment_wrangle.pdf'. This dataset consists of 671,205 rows and 20 columns. Those columns are 'id', 'funded_amount', 'loan_amount', 'activity', 'sector', 'use', 'country_code', 
'country', 'region', 'currency', 'partner_id', 'posted_time', 'disbursed_time', 'funded_time', 'term_in_months', 'lender_count', 'tags', 'borrower_genders', 'repayment_interval', and 'date'. This file can be
found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/kiva/data-science-for-good-kiva-crowdfunding).

## Summary of Findings

A plurality of repayments are made monthly. The next most represented group makes irregular payments, meaning they are at least somewhat behind. Most of the rest make bullet payments, meaning they repay the entire loan at once, while a tiny group makes weekly payments. One thing that stands out with the distribution of loans by country is the geographic diversity. The top 5 countries are the Phillipines, Kenya, El Salvador, Cambodia, and Pakistan. These countries exist on 3 different continents. The majority of the loans are less than 750 dollars, peaking between 250 and 500 dollars. Since these loans are meant for people in some of the poorest parts of the world, this is not surprising. These money amounts can go a long way. The two most popular loans by sector are the production of food (agriculture) and the consumption of food. This makes sense, as poorer countries rely on these industries for economic and job growth, nuch like developed nations did before the industrial revolution. The majority of loan terms are less than 24 months. What is interesting about this distribution is that the peaks do not occur in nice round months like 6, 12, 18, 24 like one might expect. Instead, it peaks at 8 months, then again at 14.The median loan amount for loans with monthly repayments is slightly higher than those with bullet repayments. The interesting thing here is the lower amount for people making irregular payments. It is possible that people more likely to miss payments qualify for less money. When looking at the repayment rate divided by sector, food and retail have very elevated levels of irregular payments. On the other hand, health, education, personal use, and housing have lower levels. Based solely on the graph of loan term by repayment interval, it would appear that, at least in developing countries, the advice of most financial gurus is wrong. Taking the longer term might be better for keeping up with payments. Other than some countries in each group that have a very high amount of irregular payments (e.g. the Phillipines), there doesn't seem to be any differnce between countries with a lower amount of loans and those with higher amounts. I do not believe this warrants further study.Borrowers in health, education, and personal use were of greater risk of missing payments at longer loan term lengths than those of the bullet and monthly repayment types. Lower risk sectors at longer loan term include food, transportation, services, and entertainment. Borrowers that are from the countries of Costa Rica, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Yemen, Haiti, Kyrgyzstan, and Armenia are at higher risk for missed payments at longer loan terms. People from the countries of Turkey, Mozambique, Jordan, Mexico, The United States, Rwanda, Samoa, Palestine, India, Ecuador, Colombia, Peru, Cambodia and the Phillipines are at lower risks at longer loan terms. Borrowers from The Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mexico, and Nigeria are at an especially high risk of missing payments at higher loan amounts. On the other hand, the countries of Turkey, Tanzania, Sierra Leone, Kyrgyzstan, the United States, Uganda, Pakistan, Kenya, and the Phillipines are at lower risks with higher loan amounts. Borrowers who need the money for wholesale, education, and persnonal use are at a higher risk for missed payments at higher loan amounts. Risks for all other sectors at high amounts range from slightly lower to significantly lower.


​




